and before while i'm talking about
infrastructure as a service it holds
true for
the other flavors of cloud computing as
well this is the key layer
to enabling infrastructure as a service
provisioning
and i have an illustration just to drive
home my point
i go to the extent of saying that
without virtualization
you cannot have cloud computing and i
think i've said that before
so just to illustrate my point let us
suppose that
i am a cloud service provider and i have
i'm just simply providing uh storage
disks each physical machine that i have
i have procreated my data center is a
storage disk
of two terabytes okay
uh what and and and there comes my
customer
and the customer puts in a request
through the user interface also known as
service layer
and the request is for 50 gigabytes
as opposed to two terabyte for two hours
now the challenge for me as a as a
cloud service provider or an
infrastructure service provider is
the consumer is only requesting for 50
gigabyte
that do for only two hours
how do i take my individual physical
machine
or physical storage device each of size
2 terabyte
and give it to the consumer who is only
requesting for 50 gigabyte
as i said before to solve this
one of the options is i take each one of
them which
is two terabyte and say there you go
that's all i have
you can keep the rest if you want for
two hours but that's
that would be inefficient um the other
option is
what and this is where virtualization
layer
comes into picture the other option is
using virtualization
what i will do is automatically
and i'm using the word automatically
here automatically finding
an appropriate physical machine
in amongst the data center which i
believe
is capable of hosting this request okay
so let us say it happens to be this
physical machine
and i have identified this as the host
resource and then what i would do is
using virtualization software
i will create a logical slice of the
physical machine
okay not not a physical segmentation but
a logical segmentation
and this logical segmentation is created
to the value of 50 gigabyte only so that
it meets the consumer
and then i tell the consumer there you
go this is your 50 gigabyte
after two hours the virtualization layer
may ask you
do you want to continue or do you want
me to terminate your
uh your connection so all this
magic so to speak that happens behind
the scenes
without the involvement of the provider
in any capacity the virtualization layer
does this
automatically is what is known as the
virtualization layer
so these are some of the activities that
the virtualization layer does
like finding an appropriate physical
machine
slicing it allocating it and
maintaining maintaining a snapshot
continued snapshot
to see whether it needs to be uh whether
it is being used or not
is done automatically by the
virtualization layer
and i hope you can appreciate by now
that
given the scale at which these cloud
service providers operate
i have they have consumers running into
hundreds of thousands if not millions
if this process is not done
automatically
there is no way any amount of human
effort
can help there okay
the last but not the least layer is
setting up a service layer
a service layer is nothing but like a
user interface or
it could be a simple http that you are
setting up a simple interface by which
i as a consumer i am interacting with
the provider
requesting for resources and
when i don't need that i'm shutting them
down
okay moving on
as i have said before amazon web
services is
one of the world's biggest
is not one is the biggest cloud service
provider
they provide both infrastructure as a
service
and platform as a service
the value proposition of aws is quite
simple
you pay for what you use you get your
bills on a monthly basis
you pay for what you use aws
infrastructure can be used to
host any type of application i mean
it's not they are application agnostic
they provide you with virtual machines
where they do
and you can use it to host any type of
application
i put this slide on purpose because i
wanted to give you
a sense of how much aws
has evolved over the last say
eight to nine years so when aws started
they had these services that you can see
on the screen which is
elastic compute cloud simple storage
services
cloud front they used to call them core
there were i think about seven or eight
but
now the aws service offering
looks like what you see here and even
this
uh it's as as a practitioner it's almost
impossible to keep pace
with the evolution and the rate of
growth
and the proliferation of services in aws
for example i mean last i heard they
were offering more than
100 services cloud services just from
their platform
alone okay so what but what we would be
doing
today is i would be exposing i would be
explaining you all to
some of the core aws cloud services
the reason why we call them core is
these cloud services they form the
fundamental building blocks for building
most other applications okay
these cloud services are i mean amazon
ec2
which is elastic compute cloud you will
get to hear what that
what i mean by that in a second amazon
simple storage service amazon relational
database service
cloud front and simple queue service and
amazon
glacier so
amazon elastic compute cloud
is virtual machines or virtual servers
as a service whether you want and we we
will
jump onto the console and launch an ec2
instance very soon
if you want to have a virtual server
this is the service that you are using
if you want to have if you want to store
documents if you want to store
unstructured information
amazon simple storage service is the one
that you would be using
if you want to store relational database
and then relational database service is
the one you should be using
if you want to be distributing content
and i had
someone ask question about netflix and
all
so with my understanding is that with
these content providers they develop the
service
they upload it to cloud front and that
replicates that content in
in geographically so this is used for
content distribution
and glacier is used for archival
purposes again let's go and explore each
one of this
in a little bit more detail in
starting from week 3 onwards you will be
doing lab sessions on
ec2 s3 the most important ones
for example okay so in the
stack of applications that aws has
ec2 sits on top
s3 is there
simple db is another word for relational
database service
that is cloud front and simple queue
service
so what is amazon ec2
as i said amazon ec2 stands for amazon
elastic cloud compute in
in very simple words it is virtual
machine as a service
or virtual instances as a service
and in in within aws you are actually
spoiled for
choice about the different types of ec2
instances that you may instantiate
okay as of this year
there are six different types of ec2
instances
and depending your depending on your
application
you should be choosing you should be
looking very carefully
at the type of ec2 instance that you are
instantiating
for example if i look at a general ec2
instance
a general ec2 instance has
some compute by compute i mean
processing capacity
has got some memory by memory i mean
ram capacity and it has got some
hard disk capacity okay in other words a
general ec2 instance
is perhaps well suited to
is generally suited to most applications
okay however if your application
is compute intensive for example if you
have got
a data processing application or if you
are running
a data mining application or if you are
running
an analytical application then
your general ec2 instance will not be
able to hand
will be able to do that but it will take
it much
longer to do that on the other hand
compute optimized instances what these
are is
compared to general they are much more
equipped or much more they have much
more processing capacity
plus if you if you look in terms of
price the unit price
per compute for compute optimized is
lower than general
so in other words if i've got a data
processing data analytical application
i should go for a compute optimized
instance and not a general instance
because
the general instance will not get me
very far
okay on the other hand if the nature of
my application is that i'm getting data
out from
my database from my relational database
or nosql database
and i'm putting it in cache or ram
and i'm processing it in the ram many
applications have that requirement
then again the general ec2 instance will
not
have much ram in them they will have ram
but not they will have
only sufficient ram not for specific or
specialized ram
ram applications so for such
applications i should be looking at
memory optimized
first they are much more faster because
they have a very large
ram or cache into their ec2 instance
plus the cost per unit of ram
is much cheaper than general
the third type of sorry fourth type of
ec2 instances
is if i am working on
applications which are user
which are which are graphical in nature
or which are which involve
gpus or graphical processing units for
example
again i mean my compute optimized and my
memory optimized wouldn't get me
uh they are not the right fit for it
if i'm going to be using a lot of
graphical processing and gpus
there's a separate family known as
accelerated optimized instances
i should select one of them and last but
not the least
is storage optimized so
most applications would have a database
okay whether it is sql or nosql
doesn't matter but
if there is lot of input and output
input and output happening into your
database
the general ec2 instance can do
certain number of input and output
transactions
but beyond beyond that certain number it
would not be able to handle
a large number of input and output
transactions
uh for for your application so
you need to perhaps select storage
optimized instances
where there is a lot of input and output
operations needed for your application
so as you can see there is
you have got your spoiled for choice in
terms of
many different ec2 instances and
depending on your application depending
on whether your application is
more requires more compute power or more
ram
power or is more requires more gpu power
or has a lot of input and output to
database
you should be selecting as per your
application needs
and what is more is i can start off with
general for example
and then add a compute optimize next
depending on my application and i can
i can keep on combining instances and
they would work very well with each
other
so this is a little bit about the ec2
instances we will jump onto the console
and try to instantiate one very
soon in terms of pricing
the ec2 instances they come with
they come in in in different pricing
models
the first one and the most common one is
on demand
so i go i jump on to the
easy to console um it shows me the price
whatever the price is per hour it's
it's fixed and i
instantiate one um how long am i
instantiating it
it's up to me if i need it i pay by the
hour so i'm paying for one hour if i
need it more than that
or another hour another hour so
essentially it's pay as you go
okay i'm not bound
into any long-term contracts
for the ec2 instance that i'm
instantiating the second
type of that's known as on-demand
instance and it is a very commonly used
one
the the second type of instance
is known as reserved instance and these
reserved instances
are good for those or for those people
or for those requirements who for whom
you know
very well where you can predict the
demand and you know
very well how much resources you need
for example like uts we know that
at the very basic for example and this
is just hypothetical example
we need 10 virtual machines so come
even during semester we need 10
at least 10 outside semester we need 10
okay so what we can do is we can go and
tell them
reserve 10 instances for me okay
and compared to on demand these are
very cheap very cheap in terms of
pricing
and again you can
pay this in three different ways for the
reserved instance
if you choose to pray all up front you
will be surprised at how much it costs
you
very i mean it's even cheaper i mean so
they would give you a price and if it is
all up front it's even less
or you could start with no upfront and
then pay as you go
and then you can pay partially upfront
as well
but the key difference between on-demand
and reserve
is that on demand i've got no long-term
commitment my only commitment is for the
next one hour
okay reserved instance i am entering
into
a legally binding agreement wherein i
reserve it
for a specific duration of time
quite different is the spot instances
so the way the spot instances work is
quite interesting in the sense that
within a given data center in aws
and these numbers they don't make it
public so i'm just taking hypothetical
numbers just to illustrate my point say
that they
they have got 100 physical machines
okay or within a given data center
of all the machines that they have on
offer
they can reserve 40 of them
for on demand saying that these machines
are on demand
these machines are for reserved say
another 40 percent
but there would be some machines which
are left which are not being used
perhaps either
from the on-demand bracket or from the
reserved
or they may have some machines left as a
reserve
so what they do is they they just put it
up for auction
okay and as a user what you do is you go
and
enter into that auction very cheap
usually a few cents
if you win that auction you get that
machine
okay so they use
spot instances as a way of making sure
or giving away
the spare capacity um
you can go and beat them the only thing
with spot instances is that
these are auction based you have
entered an auction you have bid for them
as long as the bid
price is your bid price is the highest
you can keep on using that virtual
machine as soon as you get
over outbid you are given like two
minutes to
vacate and the next user comes in so
that's an
example of spot instances so
reserved instances are good to use are
an excellent choice to use wherein
you're
sure that you would need that for that
duration of time
but for the most half on demand
instances you use them
no commitment at all sport instances
are good to use but then remember there
is no guarantee
there is no long-term guarantee of you
being the
whole being the guest on that instance
because the minute you're on bid
you're given like two minutes to vacate
and the next person comes in
so it is good for for running
applications that
you want to run but you don't want to
spend a lot of money
and hence if you get output outbid
you can still wait for the next time uh
when you get an instance
okay so uh this is how we launch an ec2
instance
um let me now jump onto the console and
i want to show you all
how to how we create an ec2 instance
so this is the ec2 console that
here if you go to aws you will be
getting a similar
you will be getting a similar
one very soon just one second please
now so this is how the console looks
like
um let me go to ec2
okay and if you if you don't see that
you can quite simply
once you get your account details you
can simply
search for ec2 there we go
dashboard okay now um here
instances i spoke about instance types
as well
remember uh the many different types of
ec2 instances but let me go to instances
here
and i want to launch an instance right
so i click on launch these are the
different
flavors or operating systems or the
virtual machine images that i can use
to launch my instance so for example i
can go for a linux
or i can go for an ubuntu server i can
go for
deep learning apis but i will go with
windows okay so i've chosen my operating
system
and now it's asking me uh choose an
instance type
so it's asking me to choose uh
my hard disk what type of hard disk do i
want
these are the different types i will
just select one of them
and review and launch so
i mean i'm not configuring the server
right now because it's open to the world
but
i will launch it now
i'm just launching the instance we'll be
showing in the
lab how to connect to it
so it says my instances are launching
and these are the details let me go here
but before that i want to show you
what's happening
so you see this is my instance id
instant state is still pending that
means it's taking
some time to launch so i mean behind the
scenes
it's doing its work for launching at the
moment
and now my instance is up and running so
i think it has taken me
less than a minute to go through the
whole process
if i go to my instance id these are my
details
this is my ipv4 we'll discuss this in a
little while
this is my public ip this is my instance
type
i've used windows you can use any other
one this is the
image amazon machine image a my id
the virtual machine image that i have
used
um yeah and look as i said we'll have a
whole lab dedicated to this so you'll
learn a lot more
i was just wanted to show it to you how
easy it is to launch
an instance depending on your
requirements
so let me go back to the
slides
so as i showed you all i mean when you
launch
an ec2 instance you have the ability to
select
one of the existing images and there are
there is a huge
library of images virtual machine images
but then if your if you have got your
organization's vm image outside you can
import it as well
and this features comes back
pre-packaged with
ec2 instances as well so you can import
your
image from outside and using that image
you can launch
a new ec2 instance
now moving on these are some
concepts that you need to understand and
know
especially if you want to make a career
in the cloud world
i did allude to some of these before but
we
will go through and discuss in a little
bit more detail
so the basic premise as i said is
if you are accessing services which are
closer to you
you will the latency you experience is
relatively
less than accessing services which are
geographically away from you and there's
a good reason why you experience latency
because data has to travel
on over the internet and only takes time
so what amazon has done is that they
have taken the whole map of the world
and they have
they have segmented it down
to nine different regions
okay uh at the moment let us say just
multiple regions so um
so you can have the the this region that
we live in
is known as the sydney region um
and then there is the apac region there
are multiple different regions let me
just hop in here so that i can show you
the different regions
okay so i would recommend that you
go and read about these
regions and zones but
this is the map that i want to show you
so you see
north america
so in asia pacific this is the region
that we live in
i mean uh and if you look here
asia pacific sydney region okay
the basic idea is that if in australia
if people are connecting to
a server it would be much quicker for
them to connect to the apac region in
sydney
than say perhaps the region in mainland
china there is a different one here
or the sydney one here and that is
simply because of
um simply because of uh
the the latency reasons so the basic
idea
in
so the this is the whole map of the
world as you see and each one
each orange one you see is a region
you've got one two three i mean you can
count them there are
multiple regions so if i
am the basic idea in amazon web services
is if i have developed an application
and if i want to be deployed it will be
deployed globally
and if i want my users to face
minimal latency then i should deploy
it in different regions one for each of
my customers
for example if micro if i don't have
much customers in europe
i may choose not to deploy in any region
there if i've got it in
u.s i can deploy it there so the basic
idea of a region is that you can connect
to it very quickly
your customers can connect to it very
quickly and the latency that they
um experience when connecting
to the region is very very less
as compared to the other part of the
world so that's the whole idea of
a region but within a region here
let me bring me bring you back to the
slides
so the whole idea of a region as i said
is to minimize latency for your
customers
if you don't care about your customers
latency for some reason
then perhaps you should not i mean
i mean this does not hold true but i
mean the whole idea as i said is to
minimize latency for customers
um however within a given region
like say in the sydney apac region
what they have is they have multiple
data centers
and and these data centers the multiple
data centers that they have in each
region
is grouped into availability zones
so what are availability zones so let us
take this one region for example
assuming this is the sydney region
we have from memory we have three
different availability zones
and these each one of these three
availability zones
they differ in terms of their
flood risk in terms of their earthquake
profile
in terms of natural disaster profile so
the basic idea there is if something
were to happen
touch wood
for one a z for one availability zone
the other two azs would be working
perfectly fine
okay so
the whole region of availability zones
within a region
is to make sure that your application is
uh fault tolerant and
is running in a redundant manner okay
whereas the whole concept behind regions
is to
ensure that that your application that
your customers are accessing the
application
in a in a manner in which they don't
experience
minimal latency okay so
you can have your what you can you can
have your software application you can
put it in your vm
and it's not your choice amazon highly
recommends
that you replicate this application
across at least two
acs within a given region
and that increases the fault tolerance
of your application
and if you want if you care about your
customers
latency you should be replicating this
application
across more than one region as well
okay now moving on as you can imagine
as i said you can have one virtual
machine running your application
and you can have another one in another
az
how do we uh balance the load
between these vm instances
so in the traditional non-non-cloud
world we had this concept of load
balancers load balancer some of them
could be hardware load balancers
some of them could be software but
in ec2 or aws
they have made load balancers which are
software based they're all
we call them elastic load balancers and
what they enable
us to do is to perform load balancing
between the ec2 instances
of your application in an elastic manner
so i can for example if i've got if this
is a sydney region
i've got three vms using the load
balancer i've got an incoming request
here
i can set up policies depending upon my
needs or desires and say
okay this new request should go to the
nearest geographical vm so if this is is
coming from
certain region it should go here or i
i want all these vms to
take in load in a round robin manner
i can specify policies about how these
requests
could be distributed and we have a
in week four or five
we will be discussing about load
balancers in
further detail so the basic idea of load
balancers is that they take an incoming
request
and they help you to distribute the
incoming load
across the multiple vms for
your environment or for your application
you can specify load balancing policies
and the load balancer will do it on your
behalf
so the basic idea that the load balancer
addresses
is which vm should handle my request
next
okay now as you can imagine close
working hand in glove and this is a
question that
i think one of you asked me some um
some time ago is the whole thing of
being able to scale up the computing
resources
or scaling down how is this performed is
this automatic
or is this manual so the choice is yours
for ec2 instances either you can keep on
monitoring the load
on your ec2 instances such as how many
requests
each ec2 instance is serving
keep a record and then manually choose
to scale up
or scale down or quite simply
you can simply enable the auto scaling
facility
and the way that the auto scaling works
is that you
you enable it and you specify
for example you say how many more
instances you want to scale up
automatically so what this does
is the auto scaling works hand in hand
with the
elastic load balancing and you specify
in the auto scaling module
when an additional vm should be added
which availability zone and if the
requests or if the incoming requests
drop down to below a certain level
which vm should be shut down so when
the number of request increases the auto
scaling module
automatically adds a new vm like vm5
okay moving on with each ec2 instance
uh what you have you may have seen when
i was
instantiating my ec2 instance it was
telling me that
the security on my ec2 instance needs
to be worked on it's not great so
there is this notion of security groups
what is security groups is during the
process of instantiating an ec2 instance
i can specify rules
about which packet can come in from
which ip address and which packets can
go out
you can think of security groups as
firewalls except that these firewalls
are implemented using rules or using
policies
and these can be these rules are applied
to
each ec2 instance so as you saw just now
when i was just
instantiating an ec2 instance it was
prompting me
you did not specify security groups you
need to customize that
otherwise your instance is open to the
world
so that i can specify using security
groups there
saying who can ans who can access my ec2
instance
and who cannot access my c2 instance
now one interesting proposition and you
may have seen there
you may have seen a place there for
uh elastic ip address as well
uh especially ipv4 is that
as you see you you have an application
in aws at or in the cloud for that
matter
you have got these multiple virtual
machines
um and each one of them will have an ip
address
okay so if you are
at runtime when your virtual machines
are running
it may be the case that an edit if you
have enabled auto scaling
an additional vm may be added or
if you have also enabled auto scaling
and if the requests drop below a certain
threshold
this vm may be dropped as well okay
so the question is in this case for
example
i've got four different vms and i've got
four different
ip addresses which ip address do i give
to my customers
we do they connect to this vm's ip
address or this one or this one or this
one
and remember these vms are not fixed
auto scaling and scale down can increase
the number of vms or
or decrease them as well so to solve
that
what amazon has done is they have
proposed the notion of
elastic ip address an elastic ip address
is
nothing but an ipv4 address
these ip addresses are ipv6 addresses
so here when i give it to my
customers i give the ipv4 the elastic ip
address
i don't give any of these because these
are
variables these vms are variables in my
environment
they can increase they can decrease
i give this elastic ipv address and when
the request comes in the elastic ip
address
does works with the load balancer
and directs the request to the
corresponding vm
okay so we have discussed at length
about
persistence we have about ec2 mechanisms
let's quickly discuss about persistence
mechanisms
and that would be the end of this module
and today's lecture
aws provides many different
many different persistent mechanisms
but by persistence i mean the mechanism
to store data
now again depending on your application
depending on your use case
you should be selecting one of these
persistence mechanism the most
commonly used ones are amazon
relational database service or rds
amazon simple storage service s3
and amazon glacier
each one is for a different application
type a different use case
so you have to be very careful you you
have to know the purpose of
each one of these services and then
select one
okay so let's in in this lecture try to
understand
what is each service meant for and when
you should be selecting one over the
other
amazon rds as the name suggests
it provides relational database as a
service
so if you have your data which is in key
value pair
or in the form of relational database
rds is for you
in terms of the database engines you are
again
spoiled for choice uh you can select
from
sql mysql to sql server to postgresql
amazon arora is a amazon version of the
relational database
it's much more cheaper than the than the
other ones like my sequel
oracle and microsoft sql server
okay one of the key things
one of the key issues with using amazon
rds
is that it is a managed database service
what that means is i as a consumer
i don't have to worry about maintaining
the database
administering the database licensing in
leave it completely to aws i also don't
have to worry about
recovery and backups i can enable
regular backups which means i can
specify as well
and regular snapshots as they call it
of my database will be taken and stored
and if i want to restore that snapshot i
can go and tell them
can you please go and restore the
snapshot from last week
and that will be restored back so all
that is completely managed
i don't have to worry about it okay plus
like any other cloud service it provides
the additional advantage of scaling up
so i can start with one rds instance
and then depending on my demand increase
or decrease
scale up or scale down as discussed
before
okay so there are two different flavors
for rds most audiences when they come
they come in solid state disk
ssds the reason why they use ssds
as you can imagine is that it is much
faster
than the hard disk so this is an example
of
launching an rds instance
very different to amazon rds
is amazon storage service
the s3 which we call is
short form for simple s in simple
s in storage and s in service amazon
simple storage service
amazon s3 is very different to
rds for example as i said
the use cases when you should typically
be using rdsr
when your data is in a key value pair or
as in a table on the other hand if your
data is non-structured if you have got
files images videos audio files
then you cannot store that in rds
s3 is the solution for you okay
in s3 what you do what you are done is
when you go and start using s3
information is stored in
buckets they call it buckets so
a user whenever i upload something in s3
that even a file
or an audio file or even any information
it is called an
object object gets a unique key
and that is stored in a bucket
okay so think of a bucket as a
repository or storage for many different
files or information
like this okay this is a
very very popular service from amazon s3
um as numerous
applications or startups have been built
on top of s3 dropbox which i'm sure many
of you have heard
if if not if you have used it was
originally
based on top of s3 only now they have
their own data center and all
but originally it was based on s3 so
what
dropbox did was this is amazon s3 bucket
which they have they build that
application on top
they were instantiating s3 buckets and
putting all your files in there
last service but not the least is amazon
glacier so as i said um
relational databases
excuse me
glacier as i said most of the data that
is being stored in
um rds
or s3 for that matter is transactional
data
i mean as data feeds are lively coming
in they are getting stored there
many organizations like museums or
health company hospitals or
news organizations they need to store
data but only for archival purposes
imagine a museum for example or a news
company
they have for legislative needs they
have to store
information that dates back 20 years for
example
if they start putting all that
information in s3
that would work out to be very expensive
for them
so to counter that to
so for these organizations again
the central overriding factor is when
they need that information like news
articles and all
they don't need it instantly they can
wait for a few hours
in other words it it is truly an
archival storage mechanism that they
need
amazon glacier provides that service
if you need to store data archive data
backup data in the sense wherein you
don't need it
instantaneously
then amazon glacier is for you in amazon
glacier the retrieval time
for information could be several hours
so certainly this is not meant for
transactional data but for data
for for health records for example for
patients
more than 10 years 15 years 20 years
i can put it in glacier if i need it
i can request it it can be made
available to me in two or three hours
that's fine
i can wait for that that's a much
cheaper solution for example
it's about 0.005 gigabyte
per month per gigabyte per month for
example
very very cheap last but not the least
is amazon cloud watch so with all these
resources that you are using amazon
keeps an
eye on their performance in the case of
ec2 instances for example
how many requests are they serving um
um what's the what's their utilization
profile
uh how much of them are idle and they
can
report it back to the customers amazon
cloud watch
is the service that helps the customers
get an insight into the performance
of your fleet of amazon resources
there are two different types of amazon
cloud watch
once one is the basic ones the ones that
you get pre-packaged with your ec2
instance
for example with with ec2 for example
you would get
response time and those things but then
you can define your own
complicated ones as well and that is an
advanced version of cloudwatch
so with all of these again you
pay for what you use you get a fine
grain
statement of the various cloud resources
how much you have used them and for the
resource consumption
so that brings me to end of today's
lecture
i'm sorry it was first lecture of this
subject is always
quite big but this will be the only
biggest lecture for this one here that
from next week onwards we move
to our regular pattern for 7 30.
okay so again i i i throw the floor open
to questions i'm happy to feel any
questions and answer any
any questions that you may have
hi professor hi can you explain me the
concept of
uh region because i don't understand the
concept
of region and how it it work
latency
uh look
the basic premise or i i showed you that
document i would encourage you to go and
read it the basic idea is that
if let me go back here
let me see if yes i have it open here so
you see this is the map of the world
right
uh each orange dot eger is a region
okay and and the reason why it is a
region is
let us say we are in sydney here okay
it would be
much quicker or for for if if i'm
deploying
an application let us say i made an
application
and if i'm deploying it for my customers
if they are based in in australia for
example
it would be much quicker for them to
connect to the
sydney region because they are
geographically closer
to the sydney region than say connecting
to the region in india or connecting to
the region in singapore
or connecting to the region in japan
the concept of regions is driven
by latency that the customers would
experience
so if i want if if i've got a global
footprint for example of customers
technically i should be deploying my
application in each one of the regions
if i'm deploying only in the sydney
region
all my customers would be accessing here
and that to them would result in in
in delay and in delay in responses
okay i got it thank you professor thank
you thank you
anything else any other questions for
today's lecture
how amazon deals with the china
internet connectivity issues because
china has got like with
strict rules around what can be accessed
over the internet or outside the china
look i am not an expert on on on on that
uh
i i i don't quite understand your
question actually
so one is the latency right um yes so
so there are i think there is at least
one data center in china if i'm not
wrong
but oh there are two no one at least one
okay so so
if somebody wants to access any
application from china the preferred
instance should be with inside of china
because if they go out i have seen a lot
of cases where
um they are not able to access the
application properly
so latency is just one issue but there
are a lot of other issues
the particular components of
applications are not working as
expected then the application is hosted
outside of china
look without knowing the actual problem
i'm unable to answer that
i'll reach out to you on email
separately okay sure
sure yes sure thank you
any other question ladies and gentlemen
look thank you very very much for your
time
and company today i enjoyed it very much
i hope you did
as well this is just just a start we'll
we'll have
12 to 13 solid weeks of learning
and as i said you have any questions
about the subject or anything just
shoot me an email i'll try my best to
help you okay
thank you very much and i look forward
to seeing you all
7 30 next week bye bye
thank you very much
thank you good night thank you
you